.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Tim Kuijsten
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd September 7, 2018
.Dt A2ID_FROMSTR 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm a2id_fromstr ,
.Nm a2id_fromselstr
.Nd load an A2ID or A2ID Selector from a string
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In arpa2/a2id.h
.Ft "struct a2id *"
.Fn a2id_fromstr "const char *a2idstr"
.Ft "struct a2id *"
.Fn a2id_fromselstr "const char *a2idstr"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn a2id_fromstr
parses
.Fa a2idstr
as an A2ID and returns a pointer to an a2id structure.
.Pp
The
.Fn a2id_fromselstr
parses
.Fa a2idstr
as an A2ID Selector and returns a pointer to an a2id structure.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Both
.Fn a2id_fromstr
and
.Fn a2id_fromselstr
return a newly allocated a2id structure on success that should be freed with
.Xr a2id_free 3
when done.
On error NULL is returned with
.Dv errno
set.
.Sh ERRORS
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EINVAL
.Fa a2idstrcpy
contains an invalid string or is NULL.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr a2id_free 3 ,
.Xr a2id_parsestr 3
.Pp
The grammar supported for an A2ID and A2ID Selector can be found in
a2idgrammar.txt and a2idselgrammar.txt in the doc/design directory of the
source code
.Lk https://github.com/arpa2/libarpa2service repository
.Sh AUTHOR
.An -nosplit
.An Tim Kuijsten Aq Mt tim@netsend.nl
