.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Tim Kuijsten
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: February 8 2019 $
.Dt A2ACL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm a2acl
.Nd test whether two A2IDs may communicate according to an ACL policy
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hqv
.Ar policyfile
.Ar remoteid
.Ar localid
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility tests whether a communication pair may communicate with each other under
a given ACL policy.
.Pp
It's arguments are as follows.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Print usage.
.It Fl q
Be less verbose.
.It Fl v
Be more verbose.
Can be used multiple times.
.It Ar policyfile
Path to a file that contains one or more ACL rules, one per line.
.It Ar remoteid
The remote ARPA2 ID of the communication pair to test
.It Ar localid
The local ARPA2 ID of the communication pair to test
.El
.Pp
The exit status of
.Nm
determines on which list the communication pair is
listed. Additionally, if not silenced using
.Fl q ,
one of the following letters is output on
.Dv stdout :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It W
Whitelist
.It G
Greylist
.It B
Blacklist
.It A
Abandoned
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 if communication is whitelisted, 1 if communication is
greylisted, 2 if communication is blacklisted, 3 if communication is abandoned
and 4 if an error occured.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr a2acl 3
.Pp
.Lk https://github.com/arpa2/libarpa2service/blob/master/doc/design/a2idacl-intro.md "ARPA2 Identifier and ACL introduction"
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.An Tim Kuijsten
