.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Tim Kuijsten
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: February 19 2019 $
.Dt A2ACL.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm a2acl.conf
.Nd ARPA2 ACL policy file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the configuration file used by
.Xr a2acl 1 .
Each line in the file must consist of exactly one ACL rule, which is a triplet
of the form:
.Pp
.Aq "remote selector", "local ID", "ACL segments"
.Pp
Where
.Dq remote selector
is an ARPA2 ID Selector,
.Dq local ID
is an ARPA2 ID in core form and
.Dq ACL segments
are one or more ACL segments.
Extraneous blanks in the file are ignored.
.Bl -ohang -offset Ds
.It Em "remote selector"
The syntax for this is the same as for an ARPA2 ID, except that aliases in the
localpart and labels in the domain may be left out in order to match multiple of
IDs.
.It Em "local ID"
This must be an ARPA2 ID in core form.
.It Em "ACL segments"
An ACL segment binds a local ID with alias to a list.
Within an ACL segment, one or more aliases can be specified using a syntax that
allows for wildcard matching and the ability to require a signature in a local
ID without having to specify the resulting signature upfront.
.Pp
The ACL segment syntax can be described as follows:
.Bl -enum
.It
Each ACL segment starts with a list specifier, a
.Sq %
followed by the first letter of the list it is subject to, which must be one of
.Sq W ,
.Sq G ,
.Sq B
or
.Sq A .
.It
Each following alias must start with a
.Sq +
character.
.It
If presence of a signature is required, this can be expressed by terminating
the alias with a
.Sq + .
.It
If the alias consists of only the + character this is to be interpreted as a
wildcard match, matching all aliases, including none.
This syntax may be combined with rule 3 to match all forms of the local ID that
have a signature.
.El
.El
.Pp
Rules are grouped by remote selector and local ID and the first match wins.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Whitelist communication from anyone at arpa2.net to jane+dev@example.com:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
@arpa2.net jane@example.com %W +dev
.Ed
.Pp
Here,
.Em @arpa2.net
is the remote selector and matches anyone at the domain arpa2.net.
.Em jane@example.com
is the local ID in core form and has to be combined with the aliases in the ACL
segments.
The ACL segments part of the rule contains only one ACL segment, namely:
.Em "%W +dev" .
This should be combined with the local ID and would match jane+dev@example.com,
and i.e. jane+dev+clang@example.com, but not the core form jane@example.com
itself.
.Pp
Whitelist communication from anyone at arpa2.net to a signed address of
jane+dev@example.com:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
@arpa2.net jane@example.com %W +dev+
.Ed
.Pp
Here, the trailing + in
.Em "%W +dev+"
requires anyone at arpa2.net to communicate only with signed addresses of
jane+dev@example.com. An example of a signed addresses could be
jane+dev+n5iu0wca+@example.com.
.Pp
Blacklist all communication from anyone to jane+dev@example.com:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
@. jane@example.com %B +
.Ed
.Pp
Here,
.Em @.
is the wildcard remote selector and matches anyone at any domain.
.Em jane@example.com
is the local ID in core form.
The third part of the rule contains one ACL segment, namely:
.Em "%B +" .
A single
.Sq +
is a wildcard alias and matches both the core form as well as any form with alias.
I.e. both jane@example.com and jane+any+alias@example.com are black listed.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr a2acl 1 ,
.Xr a2acl 3
.Pp
.Lk https://github.com/arpa2/libarpa2service/blob/master/doc/design/a2aclgrammar.txt "ARPA2 ACL Grammar"
.Lk https://github.com/arpa2/libarpa2service/blob/master/doc/design/a2idselgrammar.txt "ARPA2 ID Selector Grammar"
.Lk https://github.com/arpa2/libarpa2service/blob/master/doc/design/a2idacl-intro.md "ARPA2 Identifier and ACL introduction"
.Lk http://donai.arpa2.net/selector.html "DoNAI selectors"
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.An Tim Kuijsten
.Sh CAVEATS
The current file format closely resembles the internal storage format and is
hard to explain, read or write.
At the same time it is vital that no mistakes are made so the current format is
far from ideal.
