.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Tim Kuijsten
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: February 7 2019 $
.Dt A2IDMATCH 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm a2idmatch
.Nd test whether an ARPA2 identifier matches a selector
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hqv
.Ar a2id
.Ar selector
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility tests whether a given A2ID matches with an A2ID selector.
.Pp
It's arguments are as follows.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Print usage.
.It Fl q
Be quiet and don't write to stdout.
Exit 0 if
.Ar a2id
matches with
.Ar selector ,
or exit 2 if not.
.It Fl v
Be more verbose.
.It Ar a2id
The ARPA2 ID to test.
.It Ar selector
The ARPA2 ID Selector to use when testing
.Ar a2id .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 if
.Ar a2id
matches with
.Ar selector ,
2 if there is a mismatch, and 1 if an error occured.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr a2id_match 3
.Pp
.Lk https://github.com/arpa2/libarpa2service/blob/master/doc/design/a2idacl-intro.md "ARPA2 Identifier and ACL introduction"
.Pp
.Lk https://github.com/arpa2/libarpa2service/blob/master/doc/design/a2idgrammar.txt "ARPA2 ID Grammar"
.Pp
.Lk https://github.com/arpa2/libarpa2service/blob/master/doc/design/a2idselgrammar.txt "ARPA2 ID Selector Grammar"
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.An Tim Kuijsten
